---
layout: post
title: CGO
disqus: y
---
Complex Geometric Optics solution plays a big role in theoretic proofs. The flexibility of constructing a solution is the advantage.

For example,

$$(\Delta + q) u = 0$$

with reasonable potential $q$ will admit solutions in form

$$u = e^{\xi \cdot x}(1 + \phi)$$

with $\phi$ and $\nabla \phi$ controlled by scale of $O(\|\xi \|^{-1})$ and $O(1)$ in weak sense.

For 3D or above sapce, Calderon problem or similar problem, namely

$$\int (t_1 - t_2) u v = 0$$

for all $u,v$ as solutions of Schrodinger equation with potential $q_1$ and $q_2$, it is trivial to use CGO to conclude that $t_1 = t_2$, if $t_1 - t_2 \in L^2(\Omega)$, without requirement on compact support.

For 2D, we could not form a local 3D orthogonal basis, but using quadratic Carleman weight and stationary phase theorem will help.

take $u,v$ will appropriate form, and

$$\int (t_1 - t_2) e^{i\psi/h} (1 + r)(1 + s) = 0$$

with $\|r\|, \|s\|$ controlled by $O(h^{1+\epsilon})$ in $L^2$ sense.

And the leading term can be explicitly represented if there is only one non-degenerating critical point in domain, and it is at $O(h)$ scale, non-zero constant. Let $h\to 0$, then $t_1 - t_2 = 0$. But be careful about one thing, the stationary phase theorem needs $t_1 - t_2$ compactly supported.

For stability concern, it is quite tricky in 2D. We can refer to a lot of papers on Calderon problem in 2D, using Beltrami equation.

3D and above will be quite easy following the Fourier transform method, the coefficients of Fourier modes are bounded by some small numbers, and Fourier coefficients are related to $H^k$ norm, if those small numbers(possibly related to frequency) does not grow too fast, or in another word, polynomial growth, there will always be some norm for the stability argument, that is quite trivial.
