---
layout: post
title: Faster Codes III - tbb
disqus: y
published: true
---
The ``Intel Threading Building Blocks`` or ``tbb`` is a library used to parallelize program in ``C++``. It does not depends on compiler like ``cilkplus``, it is more like ``OpenMP`` but with higher level access, and easier to handle with lambda from ``C++11``.

- initialize task scheduler.
The scheduler is expensive to open up and shut down. Always put the initializer at the very beginning and try not to create any scheduler afterwards.

- three main kinds of loops
``parallel_for``, ``parallel_reduce``, ``parallel_scan`` are three main kinds of loops used.
  - ``parallel_for``
  The loop should be independent with each other, the iteration number must be fixed.
  
  ``` cpp
  #include "tbb/blocked_range.h"

  class ApplyFunc {
  private:
    T* a_;
  public:
    void operator() (const blocked_range<size_t>& r) const {
      for (auto i : r) {
        Func(a_[i]);
      }
    }
    ApplyFunc(T a[]): a_(a) {}
  }
  ```

  ``` cpp
  #include "tbb/parallel_for.h"

  void ParallelApplyFunc(T a[]) {
    parallel_for(blocked_range<size_t>(0, n), ApplyFunc(a), auto_partitioner());
  }
  ```

  - ``parallel_reduce``
  The loop should be independent with each other, with fixed number iterations. The reduce operation applies whenever we are evaluating something like $c = a[0] \circ a[1]\cdots \circ a[n-1]$.
  This fork-join loop requires a splitting constructor and a ``join`` method to work. Very easy to design.

  - ``parallel_scan``
  This is used to calculate parallel prefix. Parallel version uses a two-pass method.
- queue based parallelism
  For those tree structure, ``parallel_while`` could be a choice. Though fetching is serialized, there is ``add`` which can make use of the resources by adding more tasks.
- ``parallel_sort``
  Taken as a replacement of ``qsort``.
- concurrent containers
  ``Queue``, ``Vector``, ``HashMap``, look familiar, just have concurrent access.
