---
layout: post
title: PML
disqus: y
---

Solving wave equation in time/frequency domain with ``PML`` requires decent modifications on equation

$$\frac{\partial w}{\partial t} = H w$$

with initial Cauchy conditions and $H$ is anti-Hermitian. Where $w$ is phase space coordinate. Anti-Hermitian operator brings oscillations and numerically makes the problem not easy to be accurate.

The idea of ``PML`` is to transform:

$$\frac{\partial}{\partial x} \rightarrow \frac{1}{1 + i\frac{\sigma(x)}{\omega}}\frac{\partial}{\partial x}$$

within ``PML`` region, using positive $\sigma$ to damp the energy. In other regions, $\sigma = 0$. However, a dilemma is:

- We would like to make ``PML`` region as small as possible to reduce overall cost.

- We would like $\sigma$ as large as possible but continuous, then it would absorb as much as possible.

However, in order to preserve the thinness of our layer, then $\sigma$ is chosen as a rapid increasing function from domain of interest into ``PML``, numerically it will require finer mesh to reduce reflection error from discretization, that is not a cheap deal. A slow increasing function may not need such a fine mesh due to [Adiabatic](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adiabatic_theorem), but it may not be able to absorb the desired level of energy.

As we quoted from Steve Johnson

>With
PML, however, the constant factor is very good to start with, so experience
shows that a simple quadratic or cubic turn-on of the PML absorption usually
produces negligible reflections for a PML layer of only half a wavelength or
thinner.

It has been seen that the layer need not be thick, half a wavelength is enough, however, that also requires resolution. Usually within a wavelength, there should be 10~20 pixels or nodes, which means the resolution $h \sim 0.1 \lambda$.

In frequency domain, solving Helmholtz equation

$$\Delta u + k^2 u = 0$$

is hard for large wave number $k$ because of its oscillatory operator kernel. ``PML`` is a method as described above. Using ``limit absorption principle`` is another way. Instead of solving original equation, adding absorption term with remove the non-uniqueness of the equation.

$$\Delta u + k^2 u + i k \sigma u = 0$$

with conductivity $\sigma > 0$. And let $\sigma\rightarrow 0^+$ will force the solution approximate the true solution.

Consider a combination of the two. If our median has conductivity to make wave dissipative. And we also want no-reflection effect to ruin the result, we may use ``PML`` to solve the equation. Boundary condition can be vanishing, since positive $\sigma$ will act as a damping factor on the solution.
