---
layout: post
disqus: 'y'
title:  SPN PAT

---

The PAT is studied in various settings. Experimentally, the most difficulties are due to the modelings of complicated media. The acoustic models, elastic models, even viscoelastic, poroelastic media are possibly seen in real applications, mathematically one can push the applications to more complicated cases like plastic, the theory will be too obtrusive to study.

The simple cases are considering the limiting scenarios, for particle models or ray models, the media locally is like an interface, the particle is traveling by obeying the Snell's law (for acoustic models), the isotropic elastic models is similar due to the decoupling of the modes, but anisotropic elastic models will be more complicated. The other cases are rarely computationally easy to implement. Without considering the mode transition, the decoupled modes are indicating individual rays. If the problem is caustic-free, then the ray model probably is solvable without any problem, near the singularity, the solution belows up with certain rate and the ray model asymptotic expansion is not going to work anymore. Correct ways are proposed in terms of oscillatory integrals with stationary phase. 

Assuming the media are known, with ray models (isotropic), the decoupled P-modes are suitable for back-propagation with the ODE solver. This is mostly due to the S-modes are often undetectable through the coupling medium (water), this is identical to the acoustic media. However, the anisotropic assumption will probably ruin the reconstruction. 

Apart from the acoustic inverse source part, the quantitative part is also difficult in the transport regime due to the type of inputs, unlike lots of unrealistic settings, the anisotropic sources are quite uncontrollable unless the experiment is performed many times to average the biases, especially the near-tangential directions. With the isotropic inputs, the problem is becoming even harder to the absence of completed theory. One can cook up linearized settings but that is never interesting and requires too many assumptions on prior knowledge. Among many assumptions, there is a possibility to have the $SP_N$.

 diffusion equation approximation to work, which is the piecewise constant coefficient, in this case the $SP_N$ and $P_N$ approximations are identical, which is possibly reducing the work of reconstruction through the $SP_N$ model instead of RTE model. 

One of the difficulties is the $SP_N$ model is not easily solved with the iterative solver unless a good preconditioning operator  is known, one could make strong assumption that the zeroth mode is the strongest to have an $SP_1$ preconditioning operator to work, but mathematically this is not sound yet. By applying a few numerical experiments, one can observe that the solutions with higher modes  are concentrating on the boundaries, which made the boundary information more subtle to recover while the interior information is hardly disturbed by the higher modes, which provides the validation for lower ordered models to work in practice.

